README.md, before:

# Macroinvertebrate diversity as a predictor of fish diversity in wadeable streams

## Project Description

We hypothesize that due to macroinvertebrates’ role as a major food source for stream fish, fish diversity and macroinvertebrate diversity are directly correlated regardless of geographic location. As young biologists and ecologists, we proposed this question to learn more of the feeding behaviors of freshwater fish and how their access to a diverse food source (macroinvertebrates) could possibly affect the diversity of fish populations across multiple sites in the United States. We plan to associate macroinvertebrate diversity data with fish diversity data from the same site and compare across sites to determine if the trend that increased macroinvertebrate diversity is correlated with increased fish diversity.

## Data

The data we plan to use include macroinvertebrate species count per month, fish species count per month, and general site geographic data such as precipitation, average temperature, and elevation within the time period from January 2022 to November 2021. This data was collected from two sites, one in Alabama (AL-DO8-MAYF) and one in California (CA-D17-BIGC), in order to test across very different environments. Data was obtained from the NEON database.

## Data Citations

NEON (National Ecological Observatory Network). Fish electrofishing, gill netting, and fyke netting counts (DP1.20107.001), RELEASE-2024. <https://doi.org/10.48443/kb2e-va82>. Dataset accessed from <https://data.neonscience.org/data-products/DP1.20107.001/RELEASE-2024> on February 20, 2024.

NEON (National Ecological Observatory Network). Macroinvertebrate collection (DP1.20120.001), RELEASE-2024. <https://doi.org/10.48443/je35-bc57>. Dataset accessed from <https://data.neonscience.org/data-products/DP1.20120.001/RELEASE-2024> on February 20, 2024.

Commit message:

Added context about weather data on Readme.md

README.md, after:

# Macroinvertebrate diversity as a predictor of fish diversity in wadeable streams

## Project Description

We hypothesize that due to macroinvertebrates’ role as a major food source for stream fish, fish diversity and macroinvertebrate diversity are directly correlated regardless of geographic location. As young biologists and ecologists, we proposed this question to learn more of the feeding behaviors of freshwater fish and how their access to a diverse food source (macroinvertebrates) could possibly affect the diversity of fish populations across multiple sites in the United States. We plan to associate macroinvertebrate diversity data with fish diversity data from the same site and compare across sites to determine if the trend that increased macroinvertebrate diversity is correlated with increased fish diversity.

## Data

The data we plan to use include macroinvertebrate species count per month, fish species count per month, and general site geographic data such as precipitation, average temperature, and elevation within the time period from January 2022 to November 2021. This data was collected from two sites, one in Alabama (AL-DO8-MAYF) and one in California (CA-D17-BIGC), in order to test across very different environments. Data was obtained from the NEON database.

Although the primary research question focuses around macroinvertebrate and fish species counts, weather data will be used to provide context regarding the various habitats in which these species are found.

## Data Citations

NEON (National Ecological Observatory Network). Fish electrofishing, gill netting, and fyke netting counts (DP1.20107.001), RELEASE-2024. <https://doi.org/10.48443/kb2e-va82>. Dataset accessed from <https://data.neonscience.org/data-products/DP1.20107.001/RELEASE-2024> on February 20, 2024.

NEON (National Ecological Observatory Network). Macroinvertebrate collection (DP1.20120.001), RELEASE-2024. <https://doi.org/10.48443/je35-bc57>. Dataset accessed from <https://data.neonscience.org/data-products/DP1.20120.001/RELEASE-2024> on February 20, 2024.
